2D MPI/OpenMP PIC Periodic Field file readers
by Viktor K. Decyk
copyright 1994-2017, regents of the university of california

These codes are sample programs which illustrate how to read various
diagnostics written using simple Fortran IO by the mpbeps2 suite of PIC
codes.  It is designed for Linux but will also compile for Mac OS X.
The default compiler used is gfortran, but other compiler flags are
commented out.

No warranty for proper operation of this software is given or implied.
Software or information may be copied, distributed, and used at own
risk; it may not be distributed without this notice included verbatim
with each file.  If use of these codes results in a publication, an
acknowledgement is requested.

The makefile is setup to use gfortran with Linux.  It should also work
with MacOS X.

A Fortran program can be created called diag2 to read scalar, vector,
fluid, velocity, trajectory or phase space data.  The program diag2
calls lower level procedures called preadf2, pvreadf2, pflreadf2,
pfvreadf2, ptreadf2 and psreadf2, each of which reads one of six types
of data.  It is also possible to create executable versions of the these
low procedures directly.

To compile the programs, execute:

make

To compile just one, execute:

make program_name

where program_name is either: diag2, preadf2, pvreadf2, pflreadf2,
pfvreadf2, ptreadf2 or psreadf2

To execute, type the name of the executable:

./program_name

The Fortran version can be compiled to run with double precision by
changing the Makefile (for gfortran, set the compiler options to:
OPTS90 = -O3 -fdefault-real-8 -fdefault-double-8).  This is necessary if
if the code which wrote the data was compiled with double precision.

There is a simple built-in graphics library available which is normally
used for debugging.  It is shut off by default, but is available for
either Textronix, Postscript printers or X11 devices.

To turn it on for Fortran, search for the string: Fortran Graphics in
the Makefile, and comment out the symbol GOBJS for No graphics and
uncomment it either for Tektronix, Postscript or X1. The X11 option
requires that the library Ygl is installed and the symbol
LGOPTS = sgks2/Ygl-4.2/libYgl.a -L/usr/X11R6/lib -lX11.  To display from
a remove server, you should login to the server with the command ssh -X.

To run with Tektronix, open the window xterm -t before executing the
codes.

The Postscript printer generator produces a file called pgraph.ps, which
can be viewed with post-script viewers or converters.  The output file
can be very large, but it can be converted to pdf with substantial
compression.  For example, on the Macintosh, the program Preview will
convert and compress the large Postscript files to pdf and allow one to
easily move through this file.

There are also 6 Python scripts available.  They require dynamic
libraries, libcmfield2.so and fgraf.so

To compile this library, execute:

make python

If X11 is available, one can also compile with X11 graphics by
executing:

make -f gmake python

This currently only works in single precision.

To delete all the libraries and executables, execute:

make clobber
