2-1/2D Periodic Darwin Field MPI/OpenMP PIC test code
by Viktor K. Decyk
copyright 1994-2017, regents of the university of california

This code is a test program for the 2d periodic Darwin fields used in
the mpbeps2 suite of PIC codes.  It is designed for Linux but will also
compile for Mac OS X.  OpenMP and MPI are used for parallelization, but
if MPI is not available, the codes can be compiled for OpenMP only.  The
default compiler used is gfortran, but other compiler flags are
commented out.

No warranty for proper operation of this software is given or implied.
Software or information may be copied, distributed, and used at own
risk; it may not be distributed without this notice included verbatim
with each file.  If use of these codes results in a publication, an
acknowledgement is requested.

A Software License for use of this code is in the document:
License(CommercialReservation)

The makefile is setup to use gcc and gfortran with Linux.  It should
also work with MacOS X.

The executable created is called mp_pfields2.

To compile the program, execute:

make

The command to execute a program with both MPI and OpenMP varies from
one system to another.  One possible command is:

mpiexec -np nproc -perhost n ./mp_pfields2

where nproc is the number of processors to be used, and where n is the
number of MPI nodes per host.

By default, OpenMP will use the maximum number of processors it can find
on the MPI node.  If the user wants to control the number of threads, a
parameter nvpp can be set in the main program.  In addition, the
environment variable OMP_NUM_THREADS may need to be set to the maximum
number of threads per node expected.

To compile all this code without MPI, execute:

make m_pfields2

To execute, type the name of the executable:

./m_pfields2

The Fortran version can be compiled to run with double precision by
changing the Makefile (for gfortran, set the compiler options to:
OPTS90 = -O3 -fdefault-real-8 -fdefault-double-8)

There is a simple built-in graphics library available which is normally
used for debugging.  It is shut off by default, but is available for
either Textronix or X11 devices.

To turn it on for Fortran, search for the string: Fortran Graphics in
the Makefile, and comment out the symbol GOBJS and NGOBJS for No
graphics and uncomment it either for Tektronix or X1. The X11 option
requires that the library Ygl is installed and the symbol
LGOPTS = -lYgl -L/usr/X11R6/lib -lX11.

To run with Tektronix, open the window xterm -t before executing the
codes.
