2D OpenMP/MPI Particle-in-Cell (PIC) BEPS2 codes
by Viktor K. Decyk
copyright 1994-2017, regents of the university of california

These codes are part of a set of 2d PIC codes for educational and
research use.  They are designed for Linux but will also compile for
Mac OS X.  OpenMP and MPI are used for parallelization, but if MPI is
not available, the codes can be compiled for OpenMP only.  The default
compiler used is gfortran, but other compiler flags are commented out.

A Software License for use of this code is in the document:
License(CommercialReservation)

The makefile is setup to use gcc and gfortran with Linux.  It should
also work with MacOS X.

There are 3 Fortran codes for electrostatic, electromagnetic, and darwin
models, called mpbeps2, mpbbeps2, and mpdbeps2, respectively.  To
compile all of them, execute:

make

To compile just one, execute:

make program_name

where program_name is either: mpbeps2, mpbbeps2, or mpdbeps2

The command to execute a program with both MPI and OpenMP varies from
one system to another.  One possible command is:

mpiexec -np nproc -perhost n ./program_name

where nproc is the number of processors to be used, and where n is the
number of MPI nodes per host.

By default, OpenMP will use the maximum number of processors it can find
on the MPI node.  If the user wants to control the number of threads, a
parameter nvpp can be set in the main program.  In addition, the
environment variable OMP_NUM_THREADS may need to be set to the maximum
number of threads per node expected.

To compile all these codes without MPI, execute:

make nompi

To compile just one, execute:

make program_name

where program_name is either: mbeps2, mbbeps2, or mdbeps2

To execute, type the name of the executable:

./program_name

To delete compiled libraries (.o files), but not the executables,
execute:

make clean

To delete compiled libraries (.o files) and the executables, execute:

make clobber

The Fortran version can be compiled to run with double precision by
changing the Makefile (for gfortran, set the compiler options to:
OPTS90 = -O3 -fdefault-real-8 -fdefault-double-8)

There is a simple built-in graphics library available which is normally
used for debugging.  It is shut off by default, but is available for
either Textronix or X11 devices.

To turn it on for Fortran, search for the string: Fortran Graphics in
the Makefile, and comment out the symbol GOBJS for No graphics and
uncomment it either for Tektronix or X11.  The X11 option requires that
the library Ygl is installed and the symbol
LGOPTS = gks2/Ygl-4.2/libYgl.a -L/usr/X11R6/lib -lX11.  To display from
a remove server, you should login to the server with the command ssh -X.

To run with Tektronix, open the window xterm -t before executing the
codes.
